So, let's talk a little bit about what it means to use
composition to build user interfaces and how React let's us do that.
So, I'm starting here with this dot create
React application and I'm going to remove some stuff that
we just don't need and I'm going to paste in
the ContactList component that we've been working with up until this point.
And instead of rendering all these stuff inside of the App,
what I'm going to render is the ContactList.
So, we can already see how easy it is
to create our own custom elements as we've talked about before,
and compose them together.
We can take the ContactList and put one of those right inside this application.
Encapsulating many elements inside of a component gives us a few advantages.
For one, it's really easy to reuse all of those elements.
For example, if I wanted multiple copies of the ContactsLists,
I could just copy and paste this line three
times and get three identical copies of those elements.
Another nice property of these components is that they have
a very clean interface so I can configure
different components differently just by giving them different props.
Take for example, our ContactList.
Let's say, in the first ContactList I want to show Tyler, Karen and Richard,
and in the second contact list,
I want to show a completely different set of contacts.
So in this case, what I would actually like to do is I'd like to be able
to configure these ContactLists independently of one another.
It would be nice if ContactList had a prop,
some way that we can pass the data in instead of
hard-coding it inside of ContactList render method.
What if ContactList had
a contacts prop and inside of this prop we can pass an array of people?
Likewise, we can pass a completely different array to
our second ContactList and configure them completely independently of one another.
So, let's go and grab our ContactList up here and instead of hard-coding it,
we're going to get our list of people from this dot props dot context.
So, we can see that each component gets an object called this dot props.
The properties of this dot props are the props that were passed into the component.
So, we can paste our people list down here,
likewise in this ContactsList,
we will have a completely different set of contacts.
The first one will be Amanda,
the second one will be Mikenzi and the third one will be Ryan.
And we will get rid of this last ContactList here and now if we save this,
and you can see over here that we were able to reuse
the elements from ContactList but configure them completely separately.
This makes it really easy to reuse these components by
just passing in little bits of configuration via the props.
So, these two principles,
the ability to encapsulate a bunch of elements in a component,
and then easily reuse them, and then also,
the ability to configure those components differently and independently via props,
are two really important and fundamental keys
to understanding the composition model of React.